Add new blog post about last board meeting (#2426)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/ceo-diary-3.md

---

> date: 2021-11-11

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2021-11-12
```

title: Cancer and revenue - the latest board meeting
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
categories:
    - CEO diaries
author: james-hawkins
featuredImage: ../images/blog/blog-generic-4.png
featuredImageType: full
---

It has been a dramatic month.

Four weeks ago, our 16 month old daughter was diagnosed with [retinoblastoma](https://www.nhs.uk/conditions/retinoblastoma/#:~:text=Retinoblastoma%20is%20cancer%20of%20the,form%20a%20cancer%20called%20retinoblastoma.) - a fairly rare form of cancer that affects the eyes.

## It got bad, fast

The sequence of events:

* Her left iris became darker than her right one over the course of a few days.
* We showed an optician a day or two later at a regular eye appointment we already had scheduled. We were referred to a specialist, but with more than a month of waiting.

> * Something wasn't right. Over the next couple of days, it felt like it was changing rapidly and her pupil got dilated. We pushed to speak to a doctor and were told to go to A&E immediately. She seemed very concerned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Over the next couple of days her pupil got dilated. We were told to go to A&E immediately. 
```

> * Within two more days we had a diagnosis of cancer in both her eyes. Eyes with retinoblastoma are graded from A (least advanced) to E (most advanced) for the disease - one of her eyes was an E (certain removal), the other was a D. She had a range of other symptoms and raised lymph nodes in her head and neck, which caused concern that it had spread. They said that has only happened once in the last 8 years in the UK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Within two days we had a diagnosis of cancer in both her eyes. Eyes with retinoblastoma are graded from A (least advanced) to E (most advanced) for the disease - one of her eyes was an E (certain removal), the other was a D. She had a range of other symptoms and raised lymph nodes in her head and neck, which caused concern that it had spread. That has only happened once in the last eight years in the UK.
```

> * Then it got intense. Within a further two weeks, she'd had 5 general anaesthetics for a range of tests, including surgery to remove one of her eyes and surgery to fit a [Hickman line](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hickman_line) for chemotherapy. Each time a toddler has a general anaesthetic, they cannot eat for 4 to 6 hours beforehand depending on the procedure. That's the only way to stop her crying, and the appointments seem to run around 2-3 hours late on average, and we had a large amount of travel to get to and from them. All of this, combined with uncertainty, was the hardest part. We also had a house move in this time too, which was a good thing - it was a nice upgrade, and we had lots of help from family.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Within a further two weeks, she'd had five general anaesthetics for a range of tests, including surgery to remove one of eye and fit a [Hickman line](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hickman_line) for chemotherapy. Each time a toddler has a general anaesthetic, they cannot eat for up to six hours beforehand. The appointments run around two to three hours late on average, and we had a large amount of travel. All of this, combined with uncertainty, was the hardest part. We also moved house, which was a good thing - it was a nice upgrade, and we had lots of help from family.
```

* A month after the diagnosis, we've had final confirmation that it hasn't spread outside her eyes. Chemo has started to treat her seeing eye and we're coming to the end of the first week of that. Hopefully the tumours will respond to the chemo - there is a 66% chance of saving her seeing eye.

> ## You're so brave

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## "You're so brave"
```

We've heard this a lot, but the reality is that we have no choice.

When you get a diagnosis, there's no debate - you have to get over the next hurdle. It's very clear that we're on a long ride, and we will parent through this.

## 100% remote, 0% regrets

> For the first few weeks, it was unclear if it had spread. In the early days, both my wife and I had living nightmares - finding ourselves day dreaming about the worst case scenario. It was during these, I was grateful that I'd been lucky enough to work from home and had as a result bene present.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the first few weeks, it was unclear if it had spread. In the early days, both my wife and I had living nightmares - finding ourselves day dreaming about the worst case scenario. I was grateful that I was lucky enough to work from home and be present during these periods.
```

I was worried about balance. I decided that if the cancer hadn't spread, we'd end up on a cycle of chemo, largely at home, which I could work around. If it had spread, I'd need to learn more to make a decision. It'd be horrible to be commuting.

## The practicalities

There's just more to do to look after her:

* Antibiotics twice a day at the weekend.
* Four eye drops a day.
* Daily injections.
* Daily checks of her line / temperature - to make sure she hasn't got an infection.
* Weekly blood tests.

> * Anti bacterial spray / wipes all the time. Nappy changes have to involve gloves as it's literally toxic waste...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Anti-bacterial spray / wipes all the time. Nappy changes have to involve gloves as it's literally toxic waste.
```

> * Chemo session for 6 hours every three weeks in hospital.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Chemotherapy session for six hours every three weeks, in hospital.
```

* We can't see people inside at certain stages of her chemo cycle when her immunity is low.
* She's not able to do some things many other kids can do. She had to drop out of nursery to avoid catching illnesses, and she can't have a real bath or go swimming because of her line. She can't take painkillers when she's teething in case they mask a temperature rise.
* Regular scans of her seeing eye under general anaesthetic.

It feels pretty weird how much of a relationship we're starting to build with the staff at the various hospitals involved. We've got their cell numbers, and they tell us all the gossip on results or how to get through the system. 

## So, the board meeting

> Cancer has taken an eye; my way of saying screw you to it is that I'm not going to let it take away or reduce the opportunity at PostHog for anyone - directly or indirectly (including my family) involved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cancer has taken an eye; my way of saying screw you to it is that I'm not going to let it take away or reduce the opportunity at PostHog for anyone directly or indirectly (including my family) involved.
```

> We've had tremendous progress. Our goal for August was to get five reference customers for our paid self hosted product. We've now gone way past this and are at around 10, with around 100 paying customers on cloud, and a further 8,000 ish companies in total deployed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PostHog has made tremendous progress. Our goal for August was to get five reference customers for our paid self-hosted product. We've gone way past that and are at around 10, with around 100 paying customers on PostHog Cloud, and a further 8,000ish companies deployed in total .
```

There are two modes for product market fit:

* 0 to 1
* 1 to many

This means we feel that:

* Open source project = 1 to many mode

> * PostHog Cloud = 1 to many mode (although we are focused on self hosted)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* PostHog Cloud = 1 to many mode (although we are focused on self-hosted)
```

* PostHog Scale = 1 to many mode

## Next up

We now need to:

* More in: Accelerate growth of the open source product and the Scale product.
* More out: Get higher order values. We are working on our Enterprise product. This has a longer cycle since larger organizations are slower moving.

> These two things together we believe will compound.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We believe these two activities will compound.
```

### Getting more in

This is an unknown unknown. So the only way to figure it out is to get started making our own luck.

> We've been blessed with mainly organic growth to date. The advantage is that this product-led channel is very leveraged - we can double down on our product and we will grow faster (more word of mouth growth, and better retention). However, we can't create wild product improvements overnight - we need to push on more channels than this to accelerate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've been blessed with mainly organic growth to date. The advantage is that this product-led channel is very leveraged - we can double down on our product and we will grow faster (more word-of-mouth growth, and better retention). However, we can't create wild product improvements overnight - we need to push on more channels than this to accelerate.
```

As we created our reference customers, we've realized what the most successful users of PostHog [have in common](/handbook/strategy/strategy).

First, we need to create a scorecard. Long term revenue is the _output_ but we want to look upstream for a metric that is more controllable, with a faster feedback loop.

We are creating a simple algorithm that scores each company that deploys (and is opted in). This is based on their usage and company data. We're doing this by sending [PostHog data to Hubspot](https://github.com/PostHog/hubspot-plugin) and using their lead scoring. This lets us figure out if we're getting high quality signups. Once we have this, we can figure out if our work in marketing and developer relations is having an impact.

### More out

> We've some huge fans using us in production in massive enterprises. It stands to reason - they care greatly about data control, and they're able to deploy PostHog the day they find it since all data stays in their infrastructure, and they can start for free.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've some huge fans using us in massive enterprises. It stands to reason - they care greatly about data control, and they're able to deploy PostHog the day they find it since all data stays in their infrastructure, and they can start for free.
```
